# PocketBase + Svelte Starter Template

This project is a pre configured starter template for creating and hosting self-hostable full-stack web applications using Pocketbase low-code backend and SvelteKit frontend framework.

This stack is designed to provide easy and effective development process for small web applications. You can create the backend and database with Pocketbase without coding and write the frontend with the relatively simple SvelteKit. It is a good all-in-one solution for hobby projects or for rapid prototyping.

You need to configure the database on the Pocketbase web dashboard and write the frontend code with SvelteKit. The PocketBase can host the static site generated by SvelteKit and the Svelte application on the client's browser can connect to the PocketBase API with the PocketBase JS SDK. This way the whole application integrated into one executable and can be hosted on any cheap VPS.

## Developing

Everything you need to build a Svelte project, powered by [`sv`](https://github.com/sveltejs/cli).

By default all the scripts are set up for Windows development and Linux production builds, but you can customize it. Everything is cross platform.

### Setup development enviroment

1. Install NodeJS on your system
2. Clone the repository to you local system
3. In case of your development OS being Linux
    2. Install powershell: `sudo apt-get install powershell`
    1. Customize the `scripts` section in `package.json`
4. Run `npm run pocketbase:install` to download the latest Windows PocketBase prebuilt binary or `npm run pocketbase:update` to update it.
5. Run `npm install` to install the frontend's dependencies.

### Run Svelte development server

```sh
npm run dev

# or start the server and open the app in a new browser tab
npm run dev -- --open
```

### Run PocketBase backend with the Svelte Frontend

1. Run `npm run build` to give the backend the prebuit Svelte frontend if you want to host the frontend and the backend in the same time
2. Run `npm run pocketbase:start` to start the pocketbase

## Building for production

To build a production (release) version of your app:

```sh
npm run build:release
```
The ready to use Linux app would be located in the `build` directory

## Going to production

When you're ready to deploy your application:

1. build a production version of your app: `npm run build:release`
2. Compress the content of the `build` directory to a zip file
3. Upload it to your server
4. Unzip it
5. Start it with `./pocketbase serve`

You can find other necessary instructions on the [official PocketBase documentation's Going to Production page](https://pocketbase.io/docs/going-to-production/).

### Hosting providers

TODO